# interpreter

```
PS C:\> python .\interpreter.py --help
usage: interpreter.py [-h] [-c CSV] [-d DIR]

Interpret Nessus Data.

options:
  -h, --help         show this help message and exit
  -c CSV, --csv CSV  Path to the CSV file generated by Nessus.
  -d DIR, --dir DIR  Directory where the output will be saved.
```

# Overview

This project is meant to take the data from a Nessus CSV report and analyze its contents in a way thats beneficial for penetration test. 

When I've used Nessus during previous engagements, I've always been somewhat annoyed by the web interface... it makes it difficult to copy IP addresses or sort through the information in the way I want to. So I decided to make this project to organize the data and do a little bit of analysis on it to streamline my workflow.

## Current features:
Currently the script will generate an HTML document with the following sections:

### Host Info:
This section organizes the hosts based on their OS (as detected by Nessus). Each host if you expand it, will reveal all open ports, its IP address, hostname (if detected by Nessus), and it will give links to Hacktricks or other articles based on some of the output.

### Service Info:
This section tries to organize data based on the particular service, so if you want to find all FTP servers for instance, you can expand this and it will list them all as well as the corresponding port it is on. This section is functional, however Nessus does a poor job with consistently naming things, so you may also get some data that is unintended here.

### CISA KEV Info:
When the script executes, it will download the latest version of the CISA Known Exploitable Vulnerabilities "DB" from https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/csv/known_exploited_vulnerabilities.csv. It will then analyze the CSV for any CVEs and see if any match what is in the KEV DB. If it finds anything, it will list the vulnerability as well as the affected IPs here.

### Nessus Vulnerability Info
This section is pretty straightforward, it just lists each vulnerability as it is in Nessus, sorted by criticality. It will list the vulnerabiity name, description, any associated CVEs, its CVSS score, associated ports where it was found, and a list of the IP addresses that are affected. The main advantage here, is just that its easier to copy/paste things.

### HTTP(S) Info
This will try to list every web page that nessus detected while it was scanning. You can either pass all of these on to other tools like Eyewitness or look through them manually to try finding something interesting. Currently, it does tend to fill up with a lot of junk from the fuzzing that Nessus does, but I do think its useful enough to keep for now.


# Test:
[Hi](http://192.168.0.102)  
[hello](http://10.121.43.110/cashclubvanillaconhost/cagewebservice.svc/doprocess)   
[hey](http://10.121.43.110/echeckhost/echeckkioskservice.svc/kioskdata/doprocess)  
[aloha](http://10.121.43.110:3003/cash-access)  
[bonjour](http://localhost/)    
